JSX ,so JSX the way it is
written is that the JSX
converts into object literals, right?
And these object literals,
it's kind of sorry hard to see,
these object literals have properties and
keys.
And now that you know everything we talked
about about how this means that every
single element inside of JSX really
will have a different set of attributes,
which means it will have
a different hidden shape, right?
So you can see how that's
gonna become a problem.
And so,
what does the system wanna do internally?
Well, the system wants to convert
these into attributes in the DOM,
which means that we're gonna do a lot
of iterations over these keys and
lots of reads of these keys, etc.
And so, all of this together conspires
against us, right, and makes it so
that this thing is not the most
performing way of doing this.
Now, in the grand scheme of
things turns out DOM is so
slow that it doesn't really
matter how fast the JSX is.
But it is things things to keep in mind.
And again,
this is an example where microbenchmarks
will tend to lie to you because you will
not exercise the secondary cache as hard
as you would do it in a real application.
And what the alternative would be is to
instead of putting in an object literals
to put it inside of regular arrays,
where the odd indices contain the keys and
even indices contain the values or vice
versa which way that you want it, right?
>> You said that JSX doesn't add
that much overhead over the DOM
manipulation part but
it would add a lot of extra memory,
right, so garbage collection and stuff.
>> So, memory, yes, in terms of memory
objects and arrays are about the same.
So I don't necessarily think one will
be better necessarily than the other.
I think that the key thing is that
internally the framework has to iterate
and read the values of these properties.
And this iteration is what's expensive,
right?
I don't know exact numbers, but I believe
last time I was chatting with folks from
React, they said that the iteration of the
properties is somewhere in the order of
5% of the application runtime.
So it's not terribly significant, and
maybe from 5% we could make it in 2.5%, so
overall you would just have a couple
of percentage, points difference.
I mean on the real application so
it's not a huge difference but
it is a difference, right,
in some cases and so it would help.
Okay, so
let's look at this particular benchmark.
So what are we doing here?
So we're creating either
an object which has 100 keys or
we creating an array where every other
the even numbers are the keys and
the odd numbers are the values, right?
So this array is actually gonna be twice
the size of the object because it has to
store twice as much information.
Objects essentially cheat because
the values are stored in one location and
the keys are stored in the hidden class,
right?
If sometimes the hidden
classes can be shared,
sometimes they cannot be shared, right?
But if they can be shared,
then you definitely get savings and
you wouldn't get savings in this
particular case with arrays.
So these are trade-offs
to kind of think about.
But let's kind of do and kind of
look at these particular benchmarks.
So the first benchmark is to
just read all the properties.
In other words,
iterate over every single value and
read it, right, and then sum it up.
So let's go through the benchmark, right?
So this benchmark, what it does is it
tries to simply read all the values and
sum them up together, right?
So it just does a sum of all the things.
Now, in order to get this,
there's two things that have to happen.
First, we have to enumerate
all of the properties.
For the VM, that's relatively
straightforward because it can go and
through the hidden class,
it can get to an internal data
structure where it knows all the keys.
So that in itself is not expensive.
This bit right here though is, because
this actually causes a megamorphic read,
because the key we're
reading is always different.
I don't know if the VMs are smart enough
to recognize the fact that like, look,
I am actually doing a key
off over the object and
I'm reading this key in this exact place,
same place.
And so in theory, the VM could be
intelligent enough to be like, actually,
let me just read the values directly.
I don't think it does that
because if I remember correctly,
this will give you the keys on
the prototypes as well, right?
Or am I wrong on this?
I don't know.
I know in some instances,
you might get the parent's ones as well.
And so this is not as easy as
just like reading the values.
You actually have to do some
logic in here as well, yes.
>> What if we were to do like
object.keys or object.entries?
And do the same process, do we know?
>> So object.entries I think
you would have an ease.
I don't know.
I mean I can see how the VM
could optimize different things.
Again, like once you understand how
the thing works on a silicon and
hopefully Apple is able to
kind of convey that, right?
How you can see that you just have
these objects which are arrays, etc.
You can kind of derive in terms of
like what is and isn't possible.
It may be that the VM hasn't chosen to
implement this particular optimization,
but you should have a pretty good
idea of what is and isn't realistic,
right, through all this stuff.
So something like object.keys
collecting the keys should
be relatively straightforward process
because that information is stored
inside of the hidden class for
that particular object.
And so it should be a pretty easy way
to do that for the VM, should be pretty
efficient The reading though would
might be more complicated, right?
Because then you would have to read
the keys, and that's kind of trickier.
Okay, so in here,
we just simply do the copying.
Here, what we're doing is we're
doing the same exact operation.
The only thing we're doing different
is we're copying the object over first.
So obviously, this is gonna be slower,
because the cost of copying that
object is gonna cost us something.
But now we have the problem that we
are essentially enumerating over
the properties twice.
Once we have to enumerate here, and
then we again enumerate here, and
both are megamorphic.
So now we do the same
exact thing with arrays.
So in an array,
we do the same exact thing.
We just say, hey, can I just go and
add up all the numbers?
Obviously, I have to skip, so
I do every other one, right?
And I'm gonna do the same exact thing
where I do a copy first, and then I'm
gonna iterate over the copy of the array,
again, skipping every other thing, right?
So the question is, how much of
a performant difference is this?
How much would you expect?
You would expect about the same,
or way faster?
All right, well, let's try it.
So here we go.
So the fastest one, it was obviously
just iterating over the array.
And the difference is huge,
right, between those two.
That's a pretty significant difference.
And again let's see, how many,
what do we have here?
So in this case, we have a size of 100,
which means that we didn't
overwhelm the second level cache.
So if I go and make this into 10,000,
this should be a significant
difference in performance.
Penalty because we would like
bust the second level cache.
Let's see how we do.
Hopefully it will run, while it's running.
So the array is the fastest.
Notice, making a copy is relatively cheap.
The cost of a copy is next to nothing
which is kind of surprising, right?
But to make a copy of an object,
that's a little more expensive.
So here is 680% versus 6,000%.
It's a huge difference in
performance that you can have.
And so let's see here,
we did with more objects, right?
You see, originally,
the difference in performance was 680%.
Now the difference is 3,000%.
So when we made the number
of shapes bigger,
we really messed with the VM even more.
And again, I'm going to come back because
this is why microbenchmarks lie to you.
Because it's not a real program,
it's a small subset.
And all these secondary caches
can play tricks on you and
make it look like the stuff is
faster than it actually is.
But I find it really kind of fascinating.
I think it's really surprising to
people that a copy of an array,
which is what this is,
is really cheap, right?
Because internally, all you have to do
is copy memory and CPUs usually have
dedicated instructions to be like,
copy this memory over here, right?
And so it's super cheap whereas
copying an object you can't just copy
the values is more like you have to make
sure that in this particular case we
might end up with a different
hidden class, right?
Because it could be additional properties
added to this particular list, right?
And so the copying there, also I believe
the prototypes chains will flatten, right?
So if this object has properties
inherited from a prototype chain,
the child will have it flattened.
So you can't just copy things over.
Things become a lot more
complicated than that.
And so whenever you deal with objects,
you should be really thinking in your head
like, can the VM take
advantage of inline caching?
If the answer is yes, then your code
is good in terms of performance.
If the answer is no, then you might
consider writing it differently.
Now, should you do it all the time, no.
Sometimes it just doesn't matter, right?
But if it's hot code,
then you probably should consider it.
Questions here.
>> Micro benchmarks are somewhat more
reliable on fully compiled languages.
>> I would say on fully
compiled languages,
they'll be a lot more predictable, yes.
I think the place where people will shoot
themselves in the foot with dynamic
languages like JavaScript is that
because they don't present sufficiently
complex problem to the micro benchmark
because it's a micro, right?
The micro benchmarks will tend to
over optimize than what they will
do in reality, right?
They will say you always call me
with the same function, in line.
In reality, that might not happen, right?
Or you might have a deopt.
You always come with the same shape,
inline caches everywhere.
Again, in the reality
that might not happen.
Or even if you don't have the same shape,
I showed you how the second layer cache
might be lying to you, because as long as
the number of objects that you access is
small enough, it's not a big deal,
the second level cache will save you.
And so all of those things, if you
add them up essentially mean that you
have to be careful with micro benchmarks.
They're useful, they show useful stuff.
But a lot of times,
they're kind of tricky.
Actually, one of the things I want
to show you is that oftentimes when
I write my benchmark,
I am always sure to do an effect on
a variable that's outside
of a loop like this.
Because sometimes, under certain
conditions, the VM can look at this code
and be like, that has no side effect,
I'm just gonna skip it.
And by doing something like this,
the VM can't skip it,
because there's a code path by which
information is leaking out, right?
So it cannot be smart
enough to do these tricks.
But in theory, right, in theory,
if the compiler was intelligent enough,
it could look at all this thing and say,
none of this stuff is necessary, right?
I could just skip it.
Cuz it says, you're reading sum,
you're computing the sum value, but
then on the end of the day,
you're not doing anything with it.
So it's unnecessary,
delete, delete, delete.
All right, and prune the code.
Luckily we're not that far yet but I mean,
if we got that far, you would have really
hard time writing micro benchmarks
because it would be relatively easy for
the compiler to prove that something
is uneeded and just throw it away.
And there have been incidences of this is
all this in the past where the benchmarks
just look ridiculously better because
it's just omitting something that cannot
be eliminated in the real case, yeah Mark.
>> Are there any options to turn off
some of these optimizations that you'd
be confident about your benchmarks?
>> Yes, there are actually.
So when you execute node,
you can pass in a whole bunch of options
to tell it don't do certain things.
So for example, you can tell
the system do not do inlining.
And it will not inline any functions.
Of course,
your code is gonna run slower, but
it might be easier to
collect certain information.
So if you really wanna know what
the cost of certain things are,
turning off inliner is important.
The way this manifests itself, and again,
the tools are changing all the time.
So I might be telling you information
that might have been true a while ago and
no longer the case.
But I have noticed that when I
try to benchmark things, I will
see that a particular function is gonna be
expensive, and then it just disappears.
It's no longer there.
And what's happening is it's showing like,
look, it's expensive before I inlined it,
and then I inlined it, and it's gone.
It no longer exists.
So as far as the benchmark is concerned,
that function disappeared, and
now this other function
just became more expensive.
But it's not obvious what's happening.
And so sometimes it's difficult to unwind
what's actually happening in your system.
And so it's nice to run your code
when you disable inlining because you
have a better view of the information
that you get out of the profiler, right?
But of course, your code then runs slower
because inlining is a useful technique
which gives you benefits,
especially for small functions.
And we tend to write like tiny little
getters that return the value or
add things together, etc.
And in situations like that,
inlining actually makes a huge difference
because the cost of the operation
that you're doing typically is less than
the actual overhead of making that call.
And so in cases like that inlining
is a huge benefit, right?
>> There's someone asking for
a clarification.
A deep copy copies all fields and
makes copies of dynamically allocated
memory pointed to by the fields.
Deep copy occurs when an object is copied
along with the objects to which it refers.
>> Yeah, but
JavaScript does not have a deep copy.
Well there's, I think there's
a helper function or something, but
when you do dot, dot, dot,
that's not a deep copy.
That's a shallow copy, right?
>> Yeah, there's structured clone.
>> There's a structured clone,
yes for deep copy, but
we're not talking about that.